1. How to brew tea
http://www.ocha.tv/how_to_brew/
First of all, water is one of the most important component of green tea. The suitable water for green tea is soft water.
The water temperature is another important parameter to make tasty tea. For Japanese tea, the temperature of 70 °C (158°F)  to 80 °C (176°F) is the best to extract umami from tea leaves.

The instruction video
https://www.youtube.com/embed/cZktZ1LJroc

・Grand-mother (70s)
1. When you have a guest, what would you serve?
High quality green tea

2. How much tea leaf do you buy in the tea season?
Buy 300g (11oz.) of green tea leaves
It costs $10 per 100g(3.5oz.).

3. Is there any other way to use tea leaf than brewing?
Put brewed tea leaves onto plants

4. How often do you drink green tea/coffee?
Drinks 5 cups of green tea per day

5. Any tea-related story?
a) Even if it is in the middle of hot summer, she drinks hot green tea.
b) Green tea is the most important component of cuisine. No matter how delicious dishes a restaurant offers, if green tea at the beginning and the end of cuisine does not taste good, she will never have a meal in that restaurant.

・Mother (50s)
1. When you have a guest, what would you serve?
Guest: nice green tea   Friend: coffee or black tea (if it is summer, she might offer cold green tea)

3. Is there any other way to use tea leaf than brewing?
Spread brewed tea leaves onto floors and sweep the floors with a broom. Dust is sticked to the brewed tea leaves, and she is able to sweep without swirling dust.

4. How often do you drink green tea/coffee?
Green tea: 3 cups per day   Coffee: 2 cups per day

5. Any tea-related story?
a) Same thought as her mother (b)
b) Water is important. Even though tea leaf is good, bad water completely differs the taste of tea. Shizuoka (my hometown) has good water coming from mountains which include Mt. Fuji and locate in the north.
c) Catechin, a chemical component contained in green tea, prevents one from getting flu. So, she makes sure that everyone in her family to gargle with green tea when they come back home.

・Me(20s)
1. When you have a guest, what would you serve?
Cold green tea or Oolong tea

3. Is there any other way to use tea leaf than brewing?
Eat brewed tea leaves with Ponzu sauce, which is soy sauce with vinegar. You can taste the sourness of the sauce after the bitterness of tea leaves. One of my favorite snack. 

4. How often do you drink green tea/coffee?
Cold green tea: 1 bottle per day   Coffee: 2 cups per day
Hot green tea: 1 cup per week

5. Any tea-related story?
I agree with both my grandmother and mother that good restaurants have to serve high quality green tea. Especially, I would not like to go to sushi restaurants which serve poor green tea.

Comparison of 3 generations

By comparing the tea culture in 3 generations of 70s, 50s and 20s, we can find interesting similarities and differences.

[table]

My grandmother always serves high quality hot green tea to a guest, even if it is the middle of summer. That is not true to my mother and me. My mother serves green tea to a guest, but when the guest is her friend, she may serve hot British tea or coffee. To her, it is reasonable to serve cold drinks when it is summer. When it comes to a younger generation, the case is different. When I have a friend visiting me, I would serve cold beverage such as juice and Oolong tea no matter what the season is. It seems that as the generation gets older, they would serve hot green tea rather than cold beverage.

Each person has the different ways of exploiting used tea leaves. Utilizing used tea leaves as a fertilizer is my grandmother’s idea. Tea leaves help grow plants because the leaves contains a lot of nutritions. To some kind of plants, tea leaves can be a suitable fertilizer. My mother utilizes tea leaves for cleaning. Tea leaves help her sweep on floors without swirling dust up. My favorite way of utilizing used tea leaves is to eat them with Ponzu, soy sauce mixed with vinegar. I found this way of eating when I was in elementary school and, this is tasty. Japanese people are always looking for ways to utilize used tea leaves and there are a number of ways. Everyone has their favorite way of dealing with used tea leaves.
http://www.japanese-greentea.net/dictionary/use02.html

The biggest difference can be seen in how often we drink tea. My grandmother drinks hot green tea the most and has 5 cups per day. As the generation gets younger, we drink less cups of tea. My mother drinks hot green tea and coffee, and I drink one cup of hot green tea per week. Instead of hot green tea, I drink cold green tea and hot coffee. As Chinese people drink hot tea instead of cold tea, my grandmother drinks hot green tea even in summer. She describes that drinking hot green tea gives her an energy. From this comparison, it is sure that the younger people drink less amount of hot green tea compared to the older people.

Even though we have different attitudes toward green tea, we all agreed that good Japanese restaurants should serve high quality green tea. Green tea is one of the fundamental component of Japanese food culture. Good meal starts with a cup of good hot green tea and ends with another cup of good hot green tea.

Within Japan, tea culture is different in generations. The drink we serve to a guest is different. My grandmother always offers hot green tea, while my mother serves one from hot or cold green tea, Black  tea, or coffee. The youngest of three, I, offers cold beverage such as juice and cold Oolong tea. Interestingly, there are a number of ways to utilize used tea leaves and no matter what the generation is, everyone has their favorite way of utilizing used tea leaves. The greatest difference is the amount of green tea we drink. My grandmother drinks the most, and as the generation gets younger, we drink less amount of hot green tea. Different from my grandmother and mother, I drink more of coffee and cold green tea than hot green tea. Even though each generation has different way of looking at green tea, green tea is one of the most important Japanese culture for every generation. The requirement of a nice restaurant is to serve high quality green tea; this shows the importance of tea culture in Japan and Japanese food culture.
